Brandon Buchta, Danny Lee, Jake Prine
bbuchta@wisc.edu, djlee6@wisc.edu, jprine@wisc.edu 
Computer Science 534
9/26/2018
#Image-Expansion Concept
When applying filters to an image using convolution it is not currently possible to apply the filter at the boundary of the image and they must be dealt with in a different way. This is because when applying a convolutional filter, each pixel is determined from a function of the surrounding pixels and the filter. If any of the surrounding pixels are missing, as is the case for boundary pixels, the convolution cannot be properly calculated. We covered some possible solutions to this problem in lecture, including simply ignoring these pixels or mirroring the image across the image border to fill the pixels there, but it was noted that all of these solutions are imperfect. When ignoring boundary pixels, the pixels around the border are discarded and the resulting image shrinks. Mirroring the image across the border allows you to calculate the border pixels and avoid shrinking the image, but the accuracy of the filter depends on how close the mirrored pixels are to the ones that would actually be there had the image originally been larger. 
The goal of our project is to develop a program that will add pixels around the border of an image, in other words it will grow the image, thus allowing a filter to be more accurately applied while not losing the photo’s original field of view. We believe that we can train a neural network to predict pixels just outside of an image, so that the pixels on the border of an image can be properly convoluted like any interior pixel. The accuracy of the applied filter will be dependent on the accuracy of the pixels predicted by the neural network.

    This is an important issue to solve because pixels outside an image are needed to apply any convolutional filter to any image, and we have seen that existing solutions have their flaws. We think our program could be applied to allow for higher quality editing and, depending on the accuracy, it could also be directly used to allow a computer to predict, or see, beyond the edges of the image which could have further reaching computer vision applications. 
We plan on training a neural network to achieve this result with a training set of our own images, varying in style and content. Each image will be preprocessed to trim of n-pixels of the image border to create a set of input images tied to expected output images. The n-pixels required to trim correspond to floor(filterWidth/2) when training to apply a filter assuming its square, or simply how many pixels you want to extend the image by. Some rescaling of input and output images may also be required to properly work with our neural network. The hope is that with a big enough data set, the network should start to make correct predictions of pixels outside any image. For the scope of this assignment however, we may decide to narrow to a specific type of photograph such that we can have a more specific training set and make more interesting pixel predictions for that type of photograph.
